music/checkpoints/README.md, before:


# Hosted Checkpoints

Short link: https://goo.gl/magenta/js-checkpoints

## JSON Index

A JSON index of available checkpoints is at
https://goo.gl/magenta/js-checkpoints-json, formatted as a list of entries with
the following interface:

```ts
interface Checkpoint {
  id: string;  // A unique id for this checkpoint.
  model: 'MusicRNN'|'MusicVAE';  // The model class.
  sizeMb: number;  // The size of the weights in megabytes.
  description: string;  // A short human-readable description of the trained model.
  url: string;  // Path to the checkpoint directory.
}
```

While we do not plan to remove any of the current checkpoints, we will be adding more in the future.

If your application has a high QPS, you must mirror these files on your own server.

## Table

ID|Model|Description|Size MB|URL
---|---|---|---|---
drums_2bar_lokl_small|MusicVAE|A 2-bar, 9-class onehot drum model with a strong prior (low KL divergence), which is better for sampling. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model.|18.5|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/drums_lokl_small)
drums_2bar_hikl_small|MusicVAE|A 2-bar, 9-class onehot drum model with a weak prior (higher KL divergence), which is better for reconstructions and interpolations. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model.|18.5|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/drums_2bar_hikl_small)
drums_2bar_nade_9|MusicVAE|A 2-bar, 9-class multilabel drum model with a NADE decoder.|55.3|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/drums_2bar_nade_9)
mel_2bar_small|MusicVAE|A 2-bar, 90-class onehot melody model. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model.|17.7|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/mel_2bar_small)
mel_16bar_small|MusicVAE|A 16-bar, 90-class onehot melody model with a 16-step conductor level. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model.|47.1|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/mel_16bar_small)
trio_4bar_small|MusicVAE|A 4-bar, 'trio' model for melody, bass, and drums, with a 4-step conductor level. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model.|70.5|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/trio_4bar_small)
basic_rnn|MusicRNN|A 36-class onehot MelodyRNN model. Converted from http://download.magenta.tensorflow.org/models/basic_rnn.mag.|13.0|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_rnn/basic_rnn)
drum_kit_rnn|MusicRNN|A 9-class onehot DrumsRNN model. Converted from http://download.magenta.tensorflow.org/models/drum_kit_rnn.mag.|11.9|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_rnn/drum_kit_rnn)
chord_pitches_improv|MusicRNN|A 36-class onehot melody ImprovRNN model conditioned on chords as described at https://github.com/tensorflow/magenta/tree/master/magenta/models/improv_rnn#chord-pitches-improv. Converted from http://download.magenta.tensorflow.org/models/chord_pitches_improv.mag.|5.6|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_rnn/chord_pitches_improv)

Commit message:

Add quantization support to checkpoint_converter. (#55)
* Add quantization support to checkpoint_converter.

* Switch to quantized checkpoints.

* Add package description.

* Add teropa example to readme

* change ids

* v0.0.6

* Update example

music/checkpoints/README.md, after:


# Hosted Checkpoints

Short link: https://goo.gl/magenta/js-checkpoints

## JSON Index

A JSON index of available checkpoints is at
https://goo.gl/magenta/js-checkpoints-json, formatted as a list of entries with
the following interface:

```ts
interface Checkpoint {
  id: string;  // A unique id for this checkpoint.
  model: 'MusicRNN'|'MusicVAE';  // The model class.
  sizeMb: number;  // The size of the weights in megabytes.
  description: string;  // A short human-readable description of the trained model.
  url: string;  // Path to the checkpoint directory.
}
```

While we do not plan to remove any of the current checkpoints, we will be adding more in the future.

If your application has a high QPS, you must mirror these files on your own server.

## Table

ID|Model|Description|Size MB|URL
---|---|---|---|---
drums_2bar_lokl_small|MusicVAE|A 2-bar, 9-class onehot drum model with a strong prior (low KL divergence), which is better for sampling. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model.|18.5|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/drums_lokl_small)
drums_2bar_hikl_small|MusicVAE|A 2-bar, 9-class onehot drum model with a weak prior (higher KL divergence), which is better for reconstructions and interpolations. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model.|18.5|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/drums_2bar_hikl_small)
drums_2bar_nade_9_q2|MusicVAE|A 2-bar, 9-class multilabel drum model with a NADE decoder. Quantized to 2-byte weights.|27.6|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/drums_2bar_nade_9_q2)
mel_2bar_small|MusicVAE|A 2-bar, 90-class onehot melody model. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model.|17.7|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/mel_2bar_small)
mel_16bar_small_q2|MusicVAE|A 16-bar, 90-class onehot melody model with a 16-step conductor level. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model. Quantized to 2-byte weights.|23.5|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/mel_16bar_small_q2)
trio_4bar_lokl_small_q1|MusicVAE|A 4-bar, 'trio' model for melody, bass, and drums, with a 4-step conductor level. Trained with a strong prior (low KL divergence), which is better for sampling. Less accurate, but smaller in size than full model. Quantized to 1-byte weights.|17.6|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_vae/trio_4bar_small_q1)
basic_rnn|MusicRNN|A 36-class onehot MelodyRNN model. Converted from http://download.magenta.tensorflow.org/models/basic_rnn.mag.|13.0|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_rnn/basic_rnn)
drum_kit_rnn|MusicRNN|A 9-class onehot DrumsRNN model. Converted from http://download.magenta.tensorflow.org/models/drum_kit_rnn.mag.|11.9|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_rnn/drum_kit_rnn)
chord_pitches_improv|MusicRNN|A 36-class onehot melody ImprovRNN model conditioned on chords as described at https://github.com/tensorflow/magenta/tree/master/magenta/models/improv_rnn#chord-pitches-improv. Converted from http://download.magenta.tensorflow.org/models/chord_pitches_improv.mag.|5.6|[Right Click to Copy](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.magenta.tensorflow.org/tfjs_checkpoints/music_rnn/chord_pitches_improv)
